---
layout: post
title: "What can we learn about new physics from Jupiter?"
author: "李凌风"
workplace: "中国科学院大学 "
categories: "Talks_News"
weburl: https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202506/t20250624_7874145.html
location: "仙林园区3-402室"
time: "2025-07-01 14:00"
---

## [What can we learn about new physics from Jupiter?](https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202506/t20250624_7874145.html)

### Info:


|Author  |李凌风 访问学者|
|:--:|:--:|
|Affiliation|中国科学院大学 |
|Time    | 2025-07-01 14:00 |
|Location| 仙林园区3-302室 |
|Presentation materials|[Download](https://pan.cstcloud.cn/s/iJkvtAbMTSM)|


### 报告摘要:
In this talk, we will discuss a few recent studies that use in situ measurement data from the gas giant Jupiter to test new physics. In these cases, the planet is a huge baryonic detector hanging in the outer solar system. In the first part, we will examine how data from Jupiter missions might help us learn more about dark matter. Jupiter's gravity could trap dark matter particles, producing detectable signals in the form of relativistic charged particle flow trapped in the magnetosphere. Later on, we will examine how to use Jupiter data to constrain long-range new physics effects. Examples include a light dark photon mixing with the SM photon or a fifth force mediator. In the former case, the magnetic field survey data is used to reconstruct one of Jupiter's most precise magnetic field models. Violations of the Maxwell equations suggest the presence of new physics around the typical scale of the Jovian system. In the second case, Juno's motion around Jupiter can be used to search for deviations from gravity and, thus, possible "fifth forces.

### 报告人简介:
Lingfeng Li received his PhD in Theoretical High Energy Physics from University of California, Davis in 2018 under the supervision of Prof. Hsin-Chia Cheng. Then he worked in HKUST and Brown University as a Postdoctoral Researcher. He is interested in precision tests of the Standard Model and probing new physics. His study covers particle physics and cosmology.
