---
layout: post
title: "Neutrino “Colliders”: from Accelerators to Telescopes"
author: "谢可平 副教授"
categories: "Talks_News"
time: "2026-05-19 14:00"
---

## [Neutrino “Colliders”: from Accelerators to Telescopes](https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202605/t20260512_8200172.html)

### Info:


|Author  |谢可平 副教授|
|:--:|:--:|
|Affiliation|上海交通大学李政道研究|
|Time    | 2026-05-19 14:00 |
|Location| 仙林园区3-402室 |
|Presentation materials|[Download](https://pan.cstcloud.cn/s/JlfodFm3TnA)|


### 报告摘要:

We propose the concept of neutrino colliders, which utilize high-energy neutrino beams to probe the Standard Model with unprecedented reach and to search for physics beyond it. The concept encompasses fixed-target neutrino-ion collisions at terrestrial accelerator facilities, neutrino interactions observed in large-volume neutrino telescopes, and neutrino–lepton collisions arising at future muon colliders. The incident neutrino energies span an enormous range, from the GeV scale up to 1012GeV. In particular, collisions between cosmic neutrinos with energies above 100 PeV and nucleons in terrestrial detectors can achieve center-of-mass energies exceeding the 14 TeV limit of the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Using recently predicted and measured high-energy and ultra-high-energy neutrino fluxes from the IceCube Collaboration and KM3NeT Collaboration, we estimate the mass-scale sensitivities to representative new- physics scenarios at1-30 km3 neutrino telescopes, including TRIDENT, HUNT and NEON. In addition, neutrino partons radiated from future high-energy muon beams effectively realizeTeV-scale neutrino–lepton collisions, providing sensitivity to W′/Z′ gauge bosons as well as Standard Model Efective Field Theory (SMEFT) operators.
### 报告人简介:

Keping Xie is a tenure-track associate professor at Tsung-Dao Lee Institute, Shanghai Jiao Tong University. He received his B.S. from Peking University in 2014 and his Ph.D. from Southern Methodist University in 2019. From 2019 to 2025, he conducted postdoctoral research at the University of Pittsburgh and Michigan State University. In 2025, he joined Tsung-Dao Lee Institute, Shanghai Jiao Tong University in 2026. His research focuses on high-energy collider phenomenology, including nucleon parton distribution functions (CTEQ-TEAPDFs), electroweak factorization and its applications at future muon colliders, collider searches for new physics beyond the Standard Model, and Standard Model/Higgs effective field theory (SMEFT/HEFT).
