---
layout: post
title: "Dark Matter Dynamics and Gravitational Waves from Hidden Sectors"
author: "冯万哲 副教授"
categories: "Talks_News"
time: "2026-05-13 15:00"
---

## [Dark Matter Dynamics and Gravitational Waves from Hidden Sectors](https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202605/t20260508_8197686.html)

### Info:


|Author  |冯万哲 副教授|
|:--:|:--:|
|Affiliation|天津大学理学院 |
|Time    | 2026-05-13 15:00 |
|Location| 仙林园区3-309室 |
|Presentation materials|[Download](https://pan.cstcloud.cn/s/2qvyDazRWk)|


### 报告摘要:

The steadily increasing sensitivity and precision of direct and indirect detection experiments have significantly narrowed the viable parameter space of many conventional WIMP scenarios. This leads to two related challenges. First, the effective coupling between dark matter and the Standard Model is often forced to be ultraweak. Such a small coupling makes it increasingly difficult to obtain an annihilation cross section large enough to deplete the dark matter abundance to the observed relic density, posing a serious challenge for freeze-out model building. Second, the same ultraweak coupling makes the dark sector in which dark matter resides difficult to probe directly, thereby motivating multi-messenger searches for dark sectors. In this talk, motivated by these two issues, I will discuss the interplay among multiple hidden sectors, with particular emphasis on the role of dark sector dynamics in the cosmological evolution of dark matter. I will also discuss one of the most important multi-messenger probes beyond traditional dark matter searches: gravitational waves from cosmological phase transitions. In particular, I will present gauge-independent gravitational wave predictions from a minimal U(1) dark sector.

### 报告人简介:

Wanzhe Feng is a tenured associate professor at the School of Science, Tianjin University. He earned his B.S. in Physics from Peking University and his Ph.D. in Theoretical Physics from Northeastern University, USA. He conducted postdoctoral research at the Department of Physics and the Institute for Advanced Study at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, the Max Planck Institute for Physics in Germany, and the Arnold Sommerfeld Center for Theoretical Physics at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. He also served as a visiting scientist at Northeastern University, USA. In November 2018, he joined the School of Science at Tianjin University.
