---
layout: post
title: "General Constraints on Primordial Isocurvature from the Cosmic Microwave Background and Pulsar Timing Arrays"
author: "杜佩之 特任教授"
categories: "Talks_News"
time: "2026-05-19 10:00"
---

## [General Constraints on Primordial Isocurvature from the Cosmic Microwave Background and Pulsar Timing Arrays](https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202605/t20260509_8198146.html)

### Info:


|Author  |杜佩之 特任教授|
|:--:|:--:|
|Affiliation|中国科学技术大学 |
|Time    | 2026-05-19 10:00 |
|Location| 仙林园区3-402室 |
|Presentation materials|[Download](https://pan.cstcloud.cn/s/XnEcIpERQk)|


### 报告摘要:

The standard cosmological model (ΛCDM model) assumes adiabatic initial conditions for primordial density perturbations. However, many new physics scenarios can deviate from this assumption and generate isocurvature perturbations across a wide range of scales. In this talk, I will present general constraints on large-scale isocurvature (between 10^-4 Mpc^-1 and 10^-1 Mpc^-1) from observation of the Cosmic Microwave Background. Moreover, Pulsar Timing Arrays set stringent limits on isocurvature around 10^6 Mpc^-1 via isocurvature induced gravitational waves.
### 报告人简介:

Wanzhe Feng is a tenured associate professor at the School of Science, Tianjin University. He earned his B.S. in Physics from Peking University and his Ph.D. in Theoretical Physics from Northeastern University, USA. He conducted postdoctoral research at the Department of Physics and the Institute for Advanced Study at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, the Max Planck Institute for Physics in Germany, and the Arnold Sommerfeld Center for Theoretical Physics at Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich. He also served as a visiting scientist at Northeastern University, USA. In November 2018, he joined the School of Science at Tianjin University.
