---
layout: post
title: "Novel Light Dark Matter Detection with Quantum Parity Detector Using Qubit Arrays"
author: "宋宁强 副研究员"
workplace: "Institute of High Energy Physics"
categories: "Talks_News"
weburl: https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202605/t20260506_8195928.html
location: "仙林园区3-402室"
time: "2026-05-15 10:00"
---

## [Novel Light Dark Matter Detection with Quantum Parity Detector Using Qubit Arrays](https://pmo.cas.cn/xwdt2019/jzyg2019/202605/t20260506_8195928.html)

### Info:


|Author  |宋宁强 副研究员|
|:--:|:--:|
|Affiliation|Institute of High Energy Physics |
|Time    | 2026-05-15 10:00 |
|Location| 仙林园区3-402室 |
|Presentation materials|[Download](https://pan.cstcloud.cn/s/hDlmwaw7RAo)|


### 报告摘要:

We present the design and the sensitivity reach of the Qubit-based Light Dark Matter detection experiment. We propose the novel two-chip design to reduce signal dissipation, with quantum parity measurement to enhance single-phonon detection sensitivity. We demonstrate the performance of the detector with full phonon and quasiparticle simulations. The experiment is projected to detect 10 meV-100 meV energy deposition with nearly 100% efficiency and high energy resolution. The sensitivity to sub-MeV  dark matter scattering cross section is expected to be advanced by orders of magnitude for both light and heavy mediators, and similar improvements will be achieved for axion and dark photon absorption in the sub-eV mass range. 


### 报告人简介:

Dr Ningqiang Song obtained his PhD degree at CN Yang Institute for Theoretical Physics, Stony Brook University in 2018. After graduation he joined Queen's University and Perimeter Institute as a postdoctoral fellow from 2018 to 2021. Between 2021 and 2023, he was a research associate at the University of Liverpool. He is now an associate professor at the Institute of Theoretical Physics, Chinese Academy of Sciences. He has been working on dark matter, neutrinos and new physics.
